
The memory of you emerges from the night around me.

The river mingles its stubborn lament with the sea.


Deserted like the dwarves at dawn.

It is the hour of departure, oh deserted one!.

Cold flower heads are raining over my heart.

Oh pit of debris, fierce cave of the shipwrecked.


In you the wars and the flights accumulated.

From you the wings of the song birds rose.


You swallowed everything, like distance.

Like the sea, like time.
 In you everything sank!

It was the happy hour of assault and the kiss.

The hour of the spell that blazed like a lighthouse.


Pilot's dread, fury of blind driver,
turbulent drunkenness of love, in you everything sank!.

In the childhood of mist my soul, winged and wounded.

Lost discoverer, in you everything sank!

You girdled sorrow, you clung to desire,
sadness stunned you, in you everything sank!.

I made the wall of shadow draw back,
beyond desire and act, I walked on.


Oh flesh, my own flesh, woman whom I loved and lost.
I summon you in the moist hour, I raise my song to you.


Like a jar you housed infinite tenderness.

and the infinite oblivion shattered you like a jar.


There was the black solitude of the islands.
and there, woman of love, your arms took me in.


There was thirst and hunger, and you were the fruit.

There were grief and ruins, and you were the miracle.


Ah woman, I do not know how you could contain me.
in the earth of your soul, in the cross of your arms!

How terrible and brief my desire was to you!
How difficult and drunken, how tensed and avid.


Cemetery of kisses, there is still fire in your tombs.
still the fruited boughs burn, pecked at by birds.


Oh the bitten mouth, oh the kissed limbs.
oh the hungering teeth, oh the entwined bodies.


Oh the mad coupling of hope and force.
in which we merged and despaired.


And the tenderness, light as water and as flour.

And the word scarcely begun on the lips.


This was my destiny and in it was my voyage of my longing.
and in it my longing fell, in you everything sank!.

Oh pit of debris, everything fell into you.
what sorrow did you not express, in what sorrow are you not drowned!

From billow to billow you still called and sang.

Standing like a sailor in the prow of a vessel.


You still flowered in songs, you still brike the currents.

Oh pit of debris, open and bitter well.


Pale blind diver, luckless slinger.
lost discoverer, in you everything sank!

It is the hour of departure, the hard cold hour.
which the night fastens to all the timetables.


The rustling belt of the sea girdles the shore.

Cold stars heave up, black birds migrate.


Deserted like the wharves at dawn.

Only tremulous shadow twists in my hands.


Oh farther than everything.
 Oh farther than everything.


It is the hour of departure.
 Oh abandoned one!


 I am not jealous
 of what came before me.


 Come with a man
 on your shoulders.
 come with a hundred men in your hair.
 come with a thousand men between your breasts and your feet.
 come like a river
 full of drowned men.
 which flows down to the wild sea.
 to the eternal surf, to Time!.

 Bring them all.
 to where I am waiting for you;
 we shall always be alone.
 we shall always be you and I.
 alone on earth.
 to start our life!



 How neatly a cat sleeps.
Sleeps with its paws and its posture.
Sleeps with its wicked claws.
And with its unfeeling blood.
Sleeps with ALL the rings a series.
Of burnt circles which have formed.
The odd geology of its sand-colored tail.


I should like to sleep like a cat.
With all the fur of time.
With a tongue rough as flint.
With the dry sex of fire and.
After speaking to no one.
Stretch myself over the world.
Over roofs and landscapes.
With a passionate desire.
To hunt the rats in my dreams.


I have seen how the cat asleep.
Would undulate, how the night flowed.
Through it like dark water and at times.
It was going to fall or possibly.
Plunge into the bare deserted snowdrifts.


Sometimes it grew so much in sleep.
Like a tiger's great-grandfather.
And would leap in the darkness over.
Rooftops, clouds and volcanoes.


Sleep, sleep cat of the night with
Episcopal ceremony and your stone-carved moustache.

Take care of all our dreams.
Control the obscurity.
Of our slumbering prowess.
With your relentless HEART.
And the great ruff of your tail.



We have lost even this twilight.

No one saw us this evening hand in hand.
while the blue night dropped on the world.


I have seen from my window.
the fiesta of sunset in the distant mountain tops.


Sometimes a piece of sun.
burned like a coin in my hand.


I remembered you with my soul clenched.
in that sadness of mine that you know.


Where were you then?.
Who else was there?.
Saying what?.
Why will the whole of love come on me suddenly.
when I am sad and feel you are far away?.

The book fell that always closed at twilight.
and my blue sweater rolled like a hurt dog at my feet.


Always, always you recede through the evenings.
toward the twilight erasing statues.


Come with me, I said, and no one knew.
where, or how my pain throbbed.
no carnations or barcaroles for me.
only a wound that love had opened.


I said it again: Come with me, as if I were dying.
and no one saw the moon that bled in my mouth.
or the blood that rose into the silence.

O Love, now we can forget the star that has such thorns!.

That is why when I heard your voice repeat.
Come with me, it was as if you had let loose.
the grief, the love, the fury of a cork-trapped wine.

the geysers flooding from deep in its vault:.
in my mouth I felt the taste of fire again.
of blood and carnations, of rock and scald.



Don't go far off, not even for a day, because --
because -- I don't know how to say it: a day is long.
and I will be waiting for you, as in an empty station.
when the trains are parked off somewhere else, asleep.


Don't leave me, even for an hour, because
then the little drops of anguish will all run together.
the smoke that roams looking for a home will drift
into me, choking my lost heart.


Oh, may your silhouette never dissolve on the beach;
may your eyelids never flutter into the empty distance.

Don't leave me for a second, my dearest.

because in that moment you'll have gone so far.
I'll wander mazily over all the earth, asking.
Will you come back? Will you leave me here, dying?.



Drunk as drunk on turpentine.
From your open kisses.
Your wet body wedged.
Between my wet body and the strake.
Of our boat that is made of flowers.
Feasted, we guide it - our fingers.
Like tallows adorned with yellow metal -
Over the sky's hot rim.
The day's last breath in our sails.


Pinned by the sun between solstice.
And equinox, drowsy and tangled together.
We drifted for months and woke.
With the bitter taste of land on our lips.
Eyelids all sticky, and we longed for lime.
And the sound of a rope.
Lowering a bucket down its well.
 Then,
We came by night to the Fortunate Isles.
And lay like fish
Under the net of our kisses.



You've asked me what the lobster is weaving there with
 his golden feet?.
I reply, the ocean knows this.

You say, what is the ascidia waiting for in its transparent.
 bell? What is it waiting for?.
I tell you it is waiting for time, like you.

You ask me whom the Macrocystis alga hugs in its arms?.
Study, study it, at a certain hour, in a certain sea I know.

You question me about the wicked tusk of the narwhal.
 and I reply by describing
how the sea unicorn with the harpoon in it dies.

You enquire about the kingfisher's feathers.
which tremble in the pure springs of the southern tides?
Or you've found in the cards a new question touching on
 the crystal architecture.
of the sea anemone, and you'll deal that to me now?.
You want to understand the electric nature of the ocean
 spines?.
 The armored stalactite that breaks as it walks?.
 The hook of the angler fish, the music stretched out.
 in the deep places like a thread in the water?.

 I want to tell you the ocean knows this, that life in its
 jewel boxes.
 is endless as the sand, impossible to count, pure.
 and among the blood-colored grapes time has made the
 petal.
 hard and shiny, made the jellyfish full of light.
 and untied its knot, letting its musical threads fall.
 from a horn of plenty made of infinite mother-of-pearl.


 I am nothing but the empty net which has gone on ahead.
 of human eyes, dead in those darknesses.
 of fingers accustomed to the triangle, longitudes
 on the timid globe of an orange.


 I walked around as you do, investigating.
 the endless star.
 and in my net, during the night, I woke up naked.
 the only thing caught, a fish trapped inside the wind.



 The young maricones and the horny muchachas.
The big fat widows delirious from insomnia.
The young wives thirty hours' pregnant.
And the hoarse tomcats that cross my garden at night.
Like a collar of palpitating sexual oysters.
Surround my solitary home.
Enemies of my soul.
Conspirators in pajamas.
Who exchange deep kisses for passwords.

Radiant summer brings out the lovers.
In melancholy regiments.
Fat and thin and happy and sad couples;.
Under the elegant coconut palms, near the ocean and moon.
There is a continual life of pants and panties.
A hum from the fondling of silk stockings.
And women's breasts that glisten like eyes.

The salary man, after a while.
After the week's tedium, and the novels read in bed at night.
Has decisively fucked his neighbor.
And now takes her to the miserable movies.
Where the heroes are horses or passionate princes.
And he caresses her legs covered with sweet down.
With his ardent and sweaty palms that smell like cigarettes.

The night of the hunter and the night of the husband.
Come together like bed sheets and bury me.
And the hours after lunch, when the students and priests are masturbating.
And the animals mount each other openly.
And the bees smell of blood, and the flies buzz cholerically.
And cousins play strange games with cousins.
And doctors glower at the husband of the young patient.
And the early morning in which the professor, without a thought.
Pays his conjugal debt and eats breakfast.
And to top it all off, the adulterers, who love each other truly.
On beds big and tall as ships:.
So, eternally.
This twisted and breathing forest crushes me.
With gigantic flowers like mouth and teeth.
And black roots like fingernails and shoes.

Don't go far off, not even for a day
Don't go far off, not even for a day,
Because I don't know how to say it - a day is long
And I will be waiting for you, as in
An empty station when the trains are
Parked off somewhere else, asleep.


Don't leave me, even for an hour, because then.
The little drops of anguish will all run together.
The smoke that roams looking for a home will drift.
Into me, choking my lost heart.


Oh, may your silhouette never dissolve.
On the beach, may your eyelids never flutter.
Into the empty distance.
 Don't LEAVE me for
A second, my dearest, because in that moment you'll.
Have gone so far I'll wander mazily.
Over all the earth, asking, will you.
Come back? Will you leave me here, dying?.

I do not love you except because I love you;
I go from loving to not loving you,
From waiting to not waiting for you
My heart moves from cold to fire.


I love you only because it's you the one I love;.
I hate you deeply, and hating you.
Bend to you, and the measure of my changing love for you.
Is that I do not see you but love you blindly.


Maybe January light will consume.
My heart with its cruel.
Ray, stealing my key to true calm.


In this part of the story I am the one who.
Dies, the only one, and I will die of love because I love you.
Because I love you, Love, in fire and blood.


I like for you to be still.
It is as though you are absent.
And you hear me from far away.
And my voice does not touch you.
It seems as though your eyes had flown away.
And it seems that a kiss had sealed your mouth.
As all things are filled with my soul.
You emerge from the things.
Filled with my soul.
You are like my soul.
A butterfly of dream.
And you are like the word: Melancholy.

I like for you to be still.
And you seem far away.
It sounds as though you are lamenting.
A butterfly cooing like a dove.
And you hear me from far away.
And my voice does not reach you.
Let me come to be still in your silence.
And let me talk to you with your silence.
That is bright as a lamp.
Simple, as a ring.
You are like the night.
With its stillness and constellations.
Your silence is that of a star.
As remote and candid.

I like for you to be still.
It is as though you are absent.
Distant and full of sorrow.
So you would've died.
One word then, One smile is enough.
And I'm happy;.
Happy that it's not true.


I want you to know
one thing.


You know how this is:.
if I look.
at the crystal moon, at the red branch.
of the slow autumn at my window.
if I touch.
near the fire.
the impalpable ash.
or the wrinkled body of the log.
everything carries me to you.
as if everything that exists.
aromas, light, metals.
were little boats.
that sail.
toward those isles of yours that wait for me.


Well, now.
if little by little you stop loving me.
I shall stop loving you little by little.


If suddenly.
you forget me.
do not look for me.
for I shall already have forgotten you.


If you think it long and mad.
the wind of banners.
that passes through my life.
and you decide.
to leave me at the shore.
of the heart where I have roots.
remember.
that on that day.
at that hour.
I shall lift my arms.
and my roots will set off.
to seek another land.


Leaning into the afternoons.
I cast my sad nets towards your oceanic eyes.

There, in the highest blaze my solitude lengthens and flames;.
Its arms turning like a drowning man's.

I send out red signals across your absent eyes.
That wave like the sea, or the beach by a lighthouse.

You keep only darkness my distant female;.
>From your regard sometimes, the coast of dread emerges.


Leaning into the afternoons.
I fling my sad nets to that sea that is thrashed.
By your oceanic eyes.

The birds of night peck at the first stars.
That flash like my soul when I love you.

The night, gallops on its shadowy mare.
Shedding blue tassels over the land.


But
if each day,
each hour.
you feel that you are destined for me.
with implacable sweetness.
if each day a flower.
climbs up to your lips to seek me.
ah my love, ah my own.
in me all that fire is repeated.
in me nothing is extinguished or forgotten.
my love feeds on your love, beloved.
and as long as you live it will be in your arms.
without leaving mine.


What's wrong with you, with us.
what's happening to us?.
Ah our love is a harsh cord.
that binds us wounding us.
and if we want.
to leave our wound.
to separate.
it makes a new knot for us and condemns us.
to drain our blood and burn together.


What's wrong with you? I look at you.
and I find nothing in you but two eyes.
like all eyes, a mouth.
lost among a thousand mouths that I have kissed, more beautiful.
a body just like those that have slipped.
beneath my body without leaving any memory.


And how empty you went through the world.
like a wheat-colored jar.
without air, without sound, without substance!.
I vainly sought in you.
depth for my arms.
that dig, without cease, beneath the earth:.
beneath your skin, beneath your eyes.
nothing,
beneath your double breast scarcely
raised.
a current of crystalline order.
that does not know why it flows singing.

Why, why, why,
my love, why?



I do not love you as if you were a salt rose, or topaz.
or the arrow of carnations the fire shoots off.

I love you as certain dark things are to be loved.
in secret, between the shadow and the soul.


I love you as the plant that never blooms.
but carries in itself the light of hidden flowers;.
thanks to your love a certain solid fragrance.
risen from the earth, lives darkly in my body.


I love you without knowing how, or when, or from where.

I love you straightforwardly, without complexities or pride;.
So I love you because I know no other way.

than this: where I does not exist, nor you.
so close that your hand on my chest is my hand.
so close that your eyes close as I fall asleep.



Naked you are simple as one of your hands;.
Smooth, earthy, small, transparent, round.

You've moon-lines, apple pathways.
Naked you are slender as a naked grain of wheat.


Naked you are blue as a night in Cuba;.
You've vines and stars in your hair.

Naked you are spacious and yellow.
As summer in a golden church.


Naked you are tiny as one of your nails;.
Curved, subtle, rosy, till the day is born.
And you withdraw to the underground world.


As if down a long tunnel of clothing and of chores;.
Your clear light dims, gets dressed, drops its leaves.
And becomes a naked hand again.



There are cemeteries that are lonely.
graves full of bones that do not make a sound.
the heart moving through a tunnel.
in it darkness, darkness, darkness.
like a shipwreck we die going into ourselves.
as though we were drowning inside our hearts.
as though we lived falling out of the skin into the soul.


And there are corpses.
feet made of cold and sticky clay.
death is inside the bones.
like a barking where there are no dogs.
coming out from bells somewhere, from graves somewhere.
growing in the damp air like tears of rain.


Sometimes I see alone.
coffins under sail.
embarking with the pale dead, with women that have dead hair.
with bakers who are as white as angels.
and pensive young girls married to notary publics.
caskets sailing up the vertical river of the dead.
the river of dark purple.
moving upstream with sails filled out by the sound of death.
filled by the sound of death which is silence.


Death arrives among all that sound.
like a shoe with no foot in it, like a suit with no man in it.
comes and knocks, using a ring with no stone in it, with no
 finger in it.
comes and shouts with no mouth, with no tongue, with no
 throat.

Nevertheless its steps can be heard.
and its clothing makes a hushed sound, like a tree.


I'm not sure, I understand only a little, I can hardly see.
but it seems to me that its singing has the color of damp violets.
of violets that are at home in the earth.
because the face of death is green.
and the look death gives is green.
with the penetrating dampness of a violet leaf.
and the somber color of embittered winter.


But death also goes through the world dressed as a broom.
lapping the floor, looking for dead bodies.
death is inside the broom.
the broom is the tongue of death looking for corpses.
it is the needle of death looking for thread.


Death is inside the folding cots:.
it spends its life sleeping on the slow mattresses.
in the black blankets, and suddenly breathes out:.
it blows out a mournful sound that swells the sheets.
and the beds go sailing toward a port.
where death is waiting, dressed like an admiral.



I can write the saddest poem of all tonight.


Write, for instance: "The night is full of stars.
and the stars, blue, shiver in the distance.
"

The night wind whirls in the sky and sings.


I can write the saddest poem of all tonight.

I loved her, and sometimes she loved me too.


On nights like this, I held her in my arms.

I kissed her so many times under the infinite sky.


She loved me, sometimes I loved her.

How could I not have loved her large, still eyes?.

I can write the saddest poem of all tonight.

To think I don't have her.
 To feel that I've lost her.


To hear the immense night, more immense without her.

And the poem falls to the soul as dew to grass.


What does it matter that my love couldn't keep her.

The night is full of stars and she is not with me.


That's all.
 Far away, someone sings.
 Far away.

My soul is lost without her.


As if to bring her near, my eyes search for her.

My heart searches for her and she is not with me.


The same night that whitens the same trees.

We, we who were, we are the same no longer.


I no longer love her, true, but how much I loved her.

My voice searched the wind to touch her ear.


Someone else's.
 She will be someone else's.
 As she once
belonged to my kisses.

Her voice, her light body.
 Her infinite eyes.


I no longer love her, true, but perhaps I love her.

Love is so short and oblivion so long.


Because on nights like this I held her in my arms.
my soul is lost without her.


Although this may be the last pain she causes me.
and this may be the last poem I write for her.


An odor has remained among the sugarcane:.
a mixture of blood and body, a penetrating.
petal that brings nausea.

Between the coconut palms the graves are full.
of ruined bones, of speechless death-rattles.

The delicate dictator is talking.
with top hats, gold braid, and collars.

The tiny palace gleams like a watch.
and the rapid laughs with gloves on.
cross the corridors at times.
and join the dead voices.
and the blue mouths freshly buried.

The weeping cannot be seen, like a plant.
whose seeds fall endlessly on the earth.
whose large blind leaves grow even without light.

Hatred has grown scale on scale.
blow on blow, in the ghastly water of the swamp.
with a snout full of ooze and silence.


The light wraps you in its mortal flame.

Abstracted pale mourner, standing that way .
against the old propellers of the twilight.
that revolves around you.


Speechless, my friend.
alone in the loneliness of this hour of the dead.
and filled with the lives of fire.
pure heir of the ruined day.


A bough of fruit falls from the sun on your dark garment.

The great roots of night.
grow suddenly from your soul.
and the things that hide in you come out again.
so that a blue and palled people.
your newly born, takes nourishment.


Oh magnificent and fecund and magnetic slave.
of the circle that moves in turn through black and gold:.
rise, lead and possess a creation.
so rich in life that its flowers perish .


Tonight I can write the saddest lines.


Write, for example, 'The night is starry
and the stars are blue and shiver in the distance.
'

The night wind revolves in the sky and sings.


Tonight I can write the saddest lines.

I loved her, and sometimes she loved me too.


Through nights like this one I held her in my arms.

I kissed her again and again under the endless sky.


She loved me, sometimes I loved her too.

How could one not have loved her great still eyes.


Tonight I can write the saddest lines.

To think that I do not have her.
 To feel that I have lost her.


To hear the immense night, still more immense without her.

And the verse falls to the soul like dew to the pasture.


What does it matter that my love could not keep her.

The night is starry and she is not with me.


This is all.
 In the distance someone is singing.
 In the distance.

My soul is not satisfied that it has lost her.


My sight tries to find her as though to bring her closer.

My heart looks for her, and she is not with me.


The same night whitening the same trees.

We, of that time, are no longer the same.


I no longer love her, that's certain, but how I loved her.

My voice tried to find the wind to touch her hearing.


Another's.
 She will be another's.
 As she was before my kisses.

Her voice, her bright body.
 Her infinite eyes.


I no longer love her, that's certain, but maybe I love her.

Love is so short, forgetting is so long.


Because through nights like this one I held her in my arms.
my soul is not satisfied that it has lost her.


Though this be the last pain that she makes me suffer.
and these the last verses that I write for her.
