Thank you very much. So amazing. Rudy just left. He just said, “I don’t believe this. This is unbelievable.” Nobody believes it.

The crowds we’re getting — I’m the messenger, but I’ll tell you what, the message is the right message. We’re tired of incompetence. We’re tired of not taking care of our military. We’re tired of not taking care of our vets, who are being taken care of very poorly.

We’re tired of so many different things. And this is what happens. So, our mayor, my friend, Rudy Giuliani just walks, I’m telling you, he said, “I don’t believe this. This is incredible.”

America first. We get a little tired of these deals where they actually put, and you know why, because of lobbyists and special interests and people representing and people wanting it to happen. It’s just not that they want other countries to benefit over us. There are reasons for it and you know, when I raise money, and I’m putting up a lot of money for my own campaign, I’m funding me.

those cameras are not going on the move unless we have a protester, is there a protester up there in the quota (ph)? Any protesters?

Hey, hey — 33,000 e-mails are gone. OK? 33,000 e-mails are gone. They’re gone. How do you get rid of 33,000 e-mails? Who sends 33,000 e-mails? I mean, 33 — do you know how many that is?  And she’s so guilty. She’s so guilty.

But I just looked at this — the economic failures of Obama and Clinton, et cetera. Obama-Clinton economic policies have produced 1.2 percent economic growth, the weakest so-called recovery since the Great Depression

And I see the carnage that NAFTA has caused, I see the carnage. It’s been horrible.

They were so quiet. You know, I like the Hillary protesters. You know why? They’re so nice and quiet. The Bernie protesters were brutal; they were tough. Right? The Hillary protesters had no spirit. Did you see that?

The national debt — so, we’re up to almost $20 trillion — $20 trillion! The national debt under Obama has doubled. Think of it, doubled.

Everyone’s taxes will go down. Hillary Clinton has supported tax increases on the middle class for her entire career.

The way we got out was insane. And Obama gave a date, and he — and that’s how ISIS happened, folks. Hence, the birth of ISIS.

But — but people — the people are great. The military is great. We are going to make America great again.
We’re going to start winning. We’re going to put America first. We’re going to make America safe again.
But never, ever forget, we are going to make America great again.
Thank you. Thank you, everybody. I’ll be back soon. Thank you. God bless you.
